so what's up running shoes goes into
running shoes and how a little bit more
conscious of how equipment can help you
in your athletics but in reality it's a
very very small percent of what's going
to come down to your performance to your
risk of being injured and also comfort
let's take for example lightweight
running shoes for that are used for
racing a lot of the athletic companies
market lightweight racing flats white
shoes that are specified for 5
kilometers 10 kilometers half marathon
marathons and they're usually pretty
obsessed with the weight of the shoe now
yes the weight of a shoe will influence
or have some type of factor and how get
it back on the ground the lighter shoe
is less load on your muscles but when
you consider that your training shoe
might weigh let's say 10 and a half
ounces and let's say a 5 kilometer
racing flat might weigh 7 ounces or even
six and a half ounces the four ounces of
weight that you're talking about saving
is
it's something that you really shouldn't
be so concerned about because consider
this if you have 10% body fat your bail
you're carrying around let's say you
weight 150 pounds you're gonna be
carrying around more than ten pounds of
dead weight now I don't know what that
converts to to how many ounces or how
many extra pairs of shoes that you're at
physically carrying on your body trying
to run in a five kilometer race but I
can tell you that before you start
thinking and obsessing about shoes and
about shoes being lightweight think
about losing the pounds of body fat on
your on your frame that will translate
into exceptionally faster times and less
risk of injury and these are the things
that you need to be aware of when you
want to increase your performance the
shoe companies have no interest in
telling you to lose body fat they they
want you to buy their shoes and and I
guess it's it's unfortunate that we
think that the shoes can make us run
faster wear the shoes that really don't
do anything for you the best African
runners in the world usually trained up
until there and their teenage years
completely barefoot and the reason they
don't get injured is often is because
they're a lot lighter than the typical
American or western athletes so
fruitarianism is how I stay very lean
it's how I perform well since becoming a
fruitarian I have not had a running
related injury whatsoever and that's
with throwing all kinds of loads and
workouts it's usually around three
percent so racing flats are good for
somebody like me because I've already
have a lean body frame
and racing flats can help somewhat but
at the end of the day you've got to look
at your body composition and say what
can I do to get lean because that's
what's gonna make me faster and feel
better and have less risk for injury so
that's what I want to say